in this video let us learn how to solve 01
knapsack problem Using dynamic programming let us take the following
items with weights 1345 and it value or profit is
1457 The capacity of the knapsack is seven
Now we need to fill the knapsack with given items
with maximum profit
But here the important thing is we cannot break an
item and take it
Either we need to take it fully or leave it
That is 01 property
We can solve this using dynamic programming in each step
we need to find the sub solutions and using that
sub solution we can arrive at the overall optimal solution first
let us place all the items and knapsack capacity
in a row
column manner here Each item is placed in a row
with its weight and value and the knapsack capacity is
seven
So we have placed 0 to 7 in the columns
Now we need to fill the table with sub solutions
All the entries in the table is a sub solution
to smaller sub problems
For example this position will have the sub solution for
the problem but the maximum capacity of the knapsack
is one with only one item and this position will
have the subsolution for the problem
For the maximum capacity of the knapsack is four with
two items one and three
This position will have the sub solution for the problem
of the maximum capacity of the knapsack is six with
items 13 and four
And this position will have the sub solution for the
problem
But the maximum capacity of the knapsack is seven with
items 134 and five And this is exactly our problems
statement
So the final solution will be present here to arrive
at this position
We need to solve all these sub problems one by one
So let us solve it one by one Here the
knapsack capacity is zero but the weight of the available
item is one
So we cannot pick this so fill it with zero
Similarly we cannot pick anything when the knapsack capacity is
zero
So make the first column with zero
Now here the knapsack capacity is one and the weight
of available item as also one
So we can pick this item
So the value we get by picking this item is
one So fill it with one
And for this entire row whatever made the capacity of knapsack
the available item
weight is one
So we cannot pick anything
More than one kg so filled the entire room with
one
Now here the capacity of knapsack is one but the
available item weight is three so we cannot pick the item
And if we are not picking this item what will
be the maximum value we are leaving item three from the
available option
That means the maximum we can get is whatever the
maximum profit we can get from item one
And what is the maximum profit We will get the
knapsack
capacity is one and with only first item That
is this position here
The value is one so simply placed the same value
here
What does that mean When the capacity of knapsack is
one and we have two items with wait one and three
The maximum profit we can make is only one next
here
The capacity of knapsack is two and the weight
of available item is three
So we can't pick this item
So the maximum profit we can make by not picking
this item as one we can reuse this subsolution so
we can place one here Also
This means when the capacity of knapsack is two
And we have two items with wait one and three
The maximum profit we can make is one next
The capacity of knapsack is three and the weight of available
item is also three Here we have two options
We can either pick the item or leave the item
That is the maximisation problem
So we need to take the maximum of profit we
get by picking this item and profit
If we are leaving this item let us calculate the
profit
If we are picking this item if we pick the
item three the value we get is four and it's
not over
We also need to add the profit for the remaining
capacity of the knapsack here the knapsack
Capacity is three and the available item weight is also three
So the weight remaining in the knapsack is zero
And what will be the maximum profit when the knapsack
capacity zero Here we have picked three so the available
item is item one
So when the capacity of knapsack is zero and available
item is one the maximum profit we can get is
Zero
So add 0 to 4 this value we can get by moving
one row up and three steps back
We're moving one row up because we have already picked
this item
So to calculate the remaining profit we need to exclude
From there we are going three steps back because we
have already picked an item with weight three
And to get the profit for the remaining capacity we
need to subtract three from current knapsacks capacity
So if we pick item three the profit we get
is four plus zero which is four And if we
don't pick item three What will be the profit It's
one so we can get it from the above cell
So what will be the maximum of four and one
It is four right So write four Here
This means when the capacity of knapsack is three And if
we have two items with weight one and three the maximum
profit we can make is four next
The capacity of knapsack is four and the weight of
available item is three we need to calculate the maximum of
profit we get by picking this item and profit we
get by not picking this item
if we pick the item the value we get
is four
Plus we need to add the profit for the remaining
capacity of the knapsack here the napsack  capacity is
four and we have picked the item with the weight
of three
So the remaining capacities one and the remaining item is
item one
So what will be the maximum profit with the knapsack
Capacity is one with only first item
We can get the value by moving one row up
and three steps back
The value we get is one
So the total profit we make will be four plus
one
That is five
The what value will we get
If we do not pick the current item we will
get value one that we can get from the above cell
So the maximum of five and one is five
So fill this cell with five
Next
Whatever the knapsack capacity we can pick this item with
weight three
And after picking the item the remaining knapsack profit is
flat
That is one
It won't make any difference in the overall profit so
we can fill the remaining rows with profit five next
The capacity of knapsack is one and the weight of
available item is four So we cannot pick this item
The maximum profit we can make by not picking this
item is one here also the capacity is two and
weight of item is four
So we cannot pick it and the profit will make
is one again
The capacity is three and the weight of the item is
four
So we cannot pick it and the profit we can
make is four which we can get from the above cell
Now here the capacity is four and the weight of
available item is also four so we can pick it
So we need to calculate the maximum of profit we
get by picking this item and the profit we get
by not picking this item
If we picked this item the value we get is
five and the remaining capacity is zero
So the total value will be five
And if we don't pick this item the value we
get will be five again
So both are the same
So write
Five here
Next the item
weight is four and the capacity is five
So if we picked this item the value we get
will be five
So the remaining capacity is one and the remaining items
are item one and three
So what will be the maximum profit It will be
five plus one that is six
And if we don't pick this item the profit will
be five
So chose the maximum
Next the capacity is six and available Item weight is
four so we can chose this item
Then the value will be five and
The remaining capacity is two and the remaining item is
one and three
So the profit will be five plus 1 6
And if we don't pick this item the profit will
be five
So chose the maximum six Next
The capacity is seven and the available item weight is
four so we can chose this item
Then the value will be five and the remaining capacity
is three and the available items are item one and three and
the value we get when the capacity of knapsack is three
and with the third item is four so the total
profit we make will be five plus four that is
nine
And if we don't choose this item the profit will
be five
so chose the maximum that is nine Next the item
weight is five and four the knapsack capacity is 0123 and
four
We cannot pick this item so the profit will be
the same from previous room
Next When the capacity is five we can pick the
item five and the value will be seven
And when the capacity is six we can pick this
item five
Then the value will be seven and the remaining capacity
is one and then the value will be seven plus
1 8 And when the capacity is seven we can pick
item five
Then the value will be seven and the remaining capacity
is two
So the profit by picking this item will be seven
plus 1 8 and the profit without picking this item will
be nine
So choose the maximum that is nine
So finally the overall result will be stored in the
last cell and the maximum profit we can make is nine
That is when the capacity of the knapsack is seven
and when we have four elements with weights 134 and
five we can get the maximum profit by picking the
elements with weight three and four whose values are five
and four So this is how we can solve 01
knapsack problem in the dynamic programming approach
In each step we solve and stored one sub problem
result
And using those sub solutions we get the overall optimised
result In the next video let us learn how to
implement 01 knapsack problem.